.TH FIG2DEV 1 "Version 3.2.3-beta Dec 14, 1999"
.SH NAME
fig2dev \- translates Fig code to various graphics languages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fig2dev
.B \-L
.I language
[
.B \-m
.I mag
] [
.B \-f 
.I font
] [
.B \-s
.I fsize
] [
.I other options
] [
\fIfig-file\fR [ \fIout-file\fR ] ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fig2dev
translates fig code in the named
.I fig-file
into the specified graphics 
.I language
and puts them in
.I out-file.
The default
.I fig-file
and
.I out-file
are standard input and standard output, respectively
.LP
Xfig (Facility for Interactive Generation of figures) is a screen-oriented
tool which runs under the X Window System, and 
allows the user to draw and manipulate objects interactively.
This version of fig2dev is compatible with 
xfig versions 1.3, 1.4, 2.0, 2.1, 3.0, 3.1 and 3.2.
.LP
Xfig version 3.2.3 and later saves and allows the user to edit comments
for each Fig object.  These comments are output with several of the output languages,
such as PostScript, CGM, LaTeX, MetaFont, PicTeX, (as % comments),
tk (as # comments), and pic (as .\\" comments).

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-L
Set the output graphics language.
Valid languages are
\fBbox, cgm, epic, eepic, eepicemu, eps, gif, ibmgl, jpeg, 
latex, map (HTML image map), mf (METAFONT), pcx, pdf, pic, pictex, png, ppm, ps,
pstex, pstex_t, sld (AutoCad slide format), textyl, \fR
tiff, tk (tcl/tk), tpic, xbm and
.B xpm.

Notes:
.br
.I dvips
and
.I xdvi
must be compiled with the tpic support (-DTPIC) for epic, eepic and tpic to work.
.br
You must have ghostscript and ps2pdf, which comes with the ghostscript distribution
to get the pdf output and the bitmap formats (png, jpeg, etc.), and the netpbm (pbmplus)
package to get gif, xbm, xpm, and sld output.

.TP
.B \-h
Print help message with all options for all output languages.
.TP
.B \-m
Set the magnification at which the figure is rendered to
.I mag.
The default is 1.0.
.TP
.B \-f 
Set the default font used for text objects to
.I font.
The default is Roman; the format of this option depends on the graphics
.I language
in use.
In TeX-based languages, the font is the base of the name given in lfonts.tex,
for instance "cmr" for Roman, or "tt" for teletype.
In PostScript, it is any font name known to the printer or interpreter.
.TP
.B \-s
Set the default font size (in points) for text objects to
.I fsize.
The default is 11*mag, and thus is scaled by the \fB-m\fR option.
If there is no scaling, the default font is eleven point Roman."
.TP
.B \-V
Print the program version number only.
.TP
.I other options
The other options are specific to the choice of graphics
.I language,
as described below.

.SH CGM OPTIONS
CGM is Computer Graphics Metafile, developed by ISO and ANSI and is a
vector-based plus bitmap language.  Microsoft WORD, PowerPoint and probably
other products can import this format
.I and display it on the screen,
something that they won't do with EPS files that have an ASCII preview.
.TP
.B \-r
Position arrowheads for CGM viewers that display rounded arrowheads.
Normally, arrowheads are pointed, so fig2dev compensates for this by
moving the endpoint of the line back so the tip of the arrowhead ends 
where the original endpoint of the line was.
If the \fB-r\fR option is used, the position
of arrows will \fINOT\fR be corrected for compensating line width effects,
because the rounded arrowhead doesn't extend beyond the endpoint of the line. 
.SH EPIC OPTIONS
EPIC is an enhancement to LaTeX picture drawing environment.
It was developed by Sunil Podar of Department of Computer Science
in S.U.N.Y at Stony Brook.
.LP
EEPIC is an extension to EPIC and LaTeX picture drawing environment
which uses tpic specials as a graphics mechanism.
It was written by Conrad Kwok of Division of
Computer Science at University of California, Davis.
.LP
EEPIC-EMU is an EEPIC emulation package which does not use tpic specials.
.TP
.B \-A
Scale arrowheads by
.I factor.
The width and height of arrowheads is
.I divided
by this factor.  This is because
.I EPIC
arrowheads are normally about
double the size of
.I TeX
arrowheads.
.TP
.B \-l
Use "\fB\\thicklines\fR" when width of the line is wider than 
.I lwidth.
The default is 2.
.TP
.B \-v
Include comments in the output file.
.TP
.B \-P
Generate a complete LaTeX file. In other words, the output file can be
formatted without requiring any changes. The additional text inserted
in the beginning and at the end of the file is controlled by the
configuration parameter "Preamble" and "Postamble".
.TP
.B \-S
Set the scale to which the figure is rendered.
This option automatically sets the 
.I magnification
and size to
.I scale
/ 12 and 
.I scale
respectively.
.TP
.B \-W
Enable variable line width.  By default, only two line widths are
available: The normal line width (\thinlines), and thick
lines (\thicklines), if a line width of more than one is selected in xfig. 
.TP
.B \-w
Disable variable line width. Only "\fB\\thicklines\fR" and/or
"\fB\\thinlines\fR" commands will be generated in the output file.
.LP
When variable line width option is enabled, "\fB\\thinlines\fR"
command is still used when line width is less than
\fILineThick\fR. One potential problem is that the width of
"\fB\\thinlines\fR" is 0.4pt
but the resolution of Fig is 1/80 inch (approx. 1pt). If
\fILineThick\fR is set to 2, normal lines will be drawn in 0.4pt
wide lines but the next line width is already 2pt. One possible
solution is to set \fILineThick\fR to 1 and set the width of the
those lines you want to be drawn in "\fB\\thinlines\fR"  to 0.

Due to this problem, Variable line width \fIVarWidth\fR
is defaulted to be false.

.SH IBM-GL OPTIONS
IBM-GL (International Business Machines Graphics Language) is compatible
with HP-GL (Hewlett-Packard Graphics Language).
.TP
.B \-a
Select ISO A4 (ANSI A) paper size if the default is ANSI A (ISO A4) paper size.
.TP
.B \-c
Generate instructions for an IBM 6180 Color Plotter
with (without) an IBM Graphics Enhancement Cartridge (IBM-GEC).
.TP
.B \-d
Restrict plotting to a rectangular area of the plotter paper which has
a lower left hand corner at
.I (xll,yll)
and a upper right hand corner at
.I (xur,yur).
All four numbers are in inches and follow \fB-d\fR in a comma-sparated list -
.I xll,yll,xur,yur
- with no spaces between them.
.TP
.B \-f
Load text character specifications from the table in the
.I fonts
file.
The table must have 36 entries - one for each font plus a default.
Each entry consists of 5 numbers
which specify the
1.) standard character set (0 - 4, 6 - 9, 30 - 39),
2.) alternate character set (0 - 4, 6 - 9, 30 - 39),
3.) character slant angle (degrees),
4.) character width scale factor and
5.) character height scale factor.
.TP
.B \-l
Load area fill line patterns from the table in the
.I patterns
file.
The table must have 21 entries - one for each of the area fill patterns.
Each entry consists of 5 numbers which specify the
1.) pattern number (-1 - 6),
2.) pattern length (inches),
3.) fill type (1 - 5),
4.) fill spacing (inches) and
5.) fill angle (degrees).
.TP
.B \-m
The magnification may appear as the first element in a comma separated list -
.I mag,x0,y0
- where the second and third parameters specify an offset in inches.
.TP
.B \-p
Load plotter pen specifications from the table in the
.I pens
file.
The table must have 9 entries - one for each color plus a default.
Each entry consists of 2 numbers which specify the
1.) pen number (1 - 8) and
2.) pen thickness (millimeters).
.TP
.B \-P
Rotate the figure to portrait mode. The default is landscape mode.
.TP
.B \-S
Set the pen speed to
.I speed
(centimeters/second).
.TP
.B \-v
Plot the figure upside-down in portrait mode or backwards in landscape mode.
This allows you to write on the top surface of overhead transparencies without
disturbing the plotter ink on the bottom surface.
.LP
Fig2dev may be installed with either ANSI A or ISO A4 default paper size.
The \fB-a\fR option selects the alternate paper size.
Fig2dev does not fill closed splines.
The IBM-GEC is required to fill other polygons.
Fig2dev may be installed for plotters with or without the IBM-GEC.
The \fB-c\fR option selects the alternate instruction set.

.SH OPTIONS COMMON TO ALL BITMAP FORMATS
.TP
.B -b borderwidth
Make blank border around figure of width 
.I borderwidth.
.TP
.B -g color
Use
.I color
for the background.
.TP
.B -S smoothfactor
This will smooth the output by scaling the figure by the
.I smoothfactor
factor, which forces ghostscript to render the figure at the higher scale
to improve font rendering, then passing through pnmscale to reduce to original size,
which also smooths the image by averaging colors of adjacent pixels.
A value of 2 or 3 for 
.I smoothfactor
is reasonable.  xfig uses 2 when the "smooth" option is used in the export panel.

.SH GIF OPTIONS
.TP
.B -t color
Use
.I color
for the transparent color in the GIF file.  This must be specified
as a six-digit hexadecimal RGBvalue with the # sign, e.g. #ff0000 (Red).

.SH JPEG OPTIONS
.TP
.B -q image_quality
use the integer value 
.I image_quality
for the JPEG "Quality" factor.  Valid values are 0-100.


.SH LATEX OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Sets the threshold between LaTeX thin and thick lines to 
.I lwidth
pixels.
LaTeX supports only two different line width: \\thinlines and \\thicklines.
Lines of width greater than
.I lwidth
pixels are drawn as \\thicklines.
Also affects the size of dots in dotted line style.
The default is 1.
.TP
.B \-d
Set a separate magnification for the length of line dashes to
.I dmag.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.LP
LaTeX cannot accurately represent all the graphics objects which can
be described by Fig.
For example, the possible slopes which lines may have are limited.
Some objects, such as spline curves, cannot be drawn at all.
Fig2latex chooses the closest possible line slope, and prints error
messages when objects cannot be drawn accurately

.SH MAP (HTML image map) OPTIONS
Xfig version 3.2.3 and later saves and allows the user to edit comments
for each Fig object.
The fig2dev map output language will produce an HTML image map using Fig objects
that have href="some_html_reference" in their comments.
Any Fig object except compound objects may used for this.
Usually, besides generating the map file, you would also 
generate a GIF file, which is the image to which the map refers.
.sp
For example, you may have an xfig drawing with an 
imported image that has the comment
href="go_here.html" and a box object with a comment href="go_away.html".
This will produce an image map file such the user
may click on the image and the browser will load the "go_here.html" page, 
or click on the box and the browser will load the "go_away.html" page.
.sp
After the map file is generated by 
.I fig2dev
you will need to edit it to fill out any additional information it may need.
.TP
.B -b borderwidth
Make blank border around figure of width 
.I borderwidth.


.SH METAFONT OPTIONS
.I fig2dev
scales the figure by 1/8 before generating METAFONT code.
The magnification can be further changed with the
.B -m
option or by giving magnification options to 
.B mf.
.LP
In order to process the generated METAFONT code, the mfpic macros
must be installed where
.B mf
can find them. The mfpic macro package is available at any CTAN cite
under the subdirectory: graphics/mfpic

.TP
.B -C code
specifies the starting METAFONT font code. The default is 32.
.TP
.B -n name
specifies the name to use in the output file.
.TP
.B -p pen_magnification
specifies how much the line width should be magnified compared to the
original figure. The default is 1.
.TP
.B -t top
specifies the top of the whole coordinate system. The default is 
.B ypos.
.TP
.B -x xneg
specifies the minimum x coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 0.
.TP
.B -y yneg
specifies the minumum y coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 0. 
.TP
.B -X xpos
specifies the maximum x coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 8.
.TP
.B -Y ypos
specifies the maximum y coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 8.

.SH PIC OPTIONS
.TP
.B -p
Enables the use of certain PIC extensions which are known to work with
the groff package; compatibility with DWB PIC is unknown.
The extensions enabled by each option are:
.LP
.nf
.in 1.1i
.ta .8i
\fBarc\fR	Allow ARC_BOX i.e. use rounded corners
.br
\fBline\fR	Use the 'line_thickness' value
.br
\fBfill\fR	Allow ellipses to be filled
.br
\fBall\fR	Use all of the above
.br
\fBpsfont\fR	Don't convert Postscript fonts generic type 
	(useful for files going to be Ditroff'ed for
	and printed on PS printer). DWB-compatible.
.br
\fBallps\fR	Use all of the above (i.e. "all" + "psfont")
.in
.fi
.EP

.SH PICTEX OUTPUT
In order to include PiCTeX pictures into a document, it is necessary to
load the PiCTeX macros.
.LP
PiCTeX uses TeX integer register arithmetic to generate curves,
and so it is very slow.
PiCTeX draws curves by \fB\\put\fR-ing the \fIpsymbol\fR repeatedly,
and so requires a large amount of TeX's internal memory,
and generates large DVI files.
The size of TeX's memory limits the number of plot symbols in a picture.
As a result, it is best to use PiCTeX to generate small pictures.

.SH POSTSCRIPT, ENCAPSULATED POSTSCRIPT (EPS), and PDF OPTIONS
With PostScript, Fig can be used to create large posters. The figure
will be created by printing multiple pages which can be glued together.
Simply specify the -M option to produce a multi-page output.
Due to memory limitations of most laser printers, the figure should not
be too complicated. Great for text with very big letters.
.LP
The EPS driver has the following differences from PostScript:
.br
.in +.4i
o No showpage is generated because the output is meant to be imported
into another program or document and not printed
.br
o The landscape/portrait options are ignored
.br
o The centering option is ignored
.br
o The multiple-page option is ignored
.br 
o The paper size option is ignored
.br 
o The x/y offset options are ignored
.LP
The PDF driver uses all the PostScript options.
.LP
Text can now include various ISO-character codes above 0x7f, which is
useful for language specific characters to be printed directly.
Not all ISO-characters are implemented.
.LP
Color support: Colored objects created by Fig can be printed
on a color postscript printer. There are 32 standard colors:
black, yellow, white, gold,
five shades of blue, four shades of green,
four shades of cyan, four shades of red, five shades of magenta,
four shades of brown, and four shades of pink.
In addition there may be user-defined colors in the file.  See the
xfig FORMAT3.2 file for the definition of these colors.
On a monochrome printer, colored objects will be mapped into different
grayscales by the printer.
Filled objects are printed using the given area fill and color.
There are 21 "shades" going from black to full saturation of the fill color,
and 21 more "tints" from full saturation + 1 to white.
In addition, there are 16 patterns such as bricks, diagonal lines, 
crosshatch, etc.
.TP
.B -b borderwidth
Make blank border around figure of width 
.I borderwidth.
.TP
.B -c
option centers the figure on the page.
The centering may not be accurate if there are texts in the
.I fig_file
that extends too far to the right of other objects.
.TP
.B -e
option puts the figure against the edge (not centered) of the page.
.TP
.B -g color
Use
.I color
for the background.
.TP
.B -l dummy_arg
Generate figure in landscape mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
.br
This option is only honored when not using the -P option (add showpage).
This is because the figure doesn't need to be rotated when generating
Encapsulated PostScript (EPS).
.TP
.B -M
Generate multiple pages if figure exceeds paper size.
.TP
.B -p dummy_arg
Generate figure in portrait mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
This is the default for Fig files of version 2.1 or lower.
.TP
.B -P
indicates that the figure describes a full page which will not
necessarily be inserted into a document, but can be sent directly
to a PS printer.
This ensures that a showpage command is inserted at the end of
the figure.
.TP
.B -n name
Set the Title part of the PostScript output to
.I name.
This is useful when the input to
.I fig2dev
comes from standard input.
.TP
.B -x offset
shift the figure in the X direction by
.I offset
units (1/72 inch).
A negative value shifts the figure to the left and a positive value to the right.
.TP
.B -y offset
shift the figure in the Y direction by
.I offset
units (1/72 inch).
A negative value shifts the figure up and a positive value down.
.TP
.B -z papersize
Sets the papersize. Available paper sizes are:
.nf
.in +.4i
"Letter" (8.5" x 11" also "A"),
"Legal" (11" x 14")
"Ledger" (11" x 17"),
"Tabloid" (17" x 11", really Ledger in Landscape mode),
"A" (8.5" x 11" also "Letter"),
"B" (11" x 17" also "Ledger"),
"C" (17" x 22"),
"D" (22" x 34"),
"E" (34" x 44"),
"A4" (21  cm x  29.7cm),
"A3" (29.7cm x  42  cm),
"A2" (42  cm x  59.4cm),
"A1" (59.4cm x  84.1cm),
"A0" (84.1cm x 118.9cm),
and "B5" (18.2cm x 25.7cm).
.fi
.in -.4i
.LP

.SH PSTEX OPTIONS
The
.B pstex
language is a variant of
.B ps
which suppresses formatted (special) text.
The
.B pstex_t
language has the complementary behavior: it generates only LaTeX commands
necessary to position special text, and to overlay the
PostScript file generated using
.B pstex.
These two drivers can be used to generate a figure which combines the
flexibility of PostScript graphics with LaTeX text formatting of
special text.
.TP
.B -g color
Use
.I color
for the background.
.TP
.B -n name
sets the Title part of the PostScript output to
.I name.
This is useful when the input to
.I fig2dev
comes from standard input.
.TP
.B -p file
specifies the name of the PostScript file to be overlaid.
If not set or its value is null then no PS file will be inserted.
.LP

.SH TK OPTIONS
.TP
.B -l dummy_arg
Generate figure in landscape mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
.TP
.B -p dummy_arg
Generate figure in portrait mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
This is the default for Fig files of version 2.1 or lower.
.TP
.B -P
Generate canvas of full page size instead of using the bounding box
of the figure's objects. The default is to use only the bounding box.
.TP
.B -z papersize
Sets the papersize.  See the POSTSCRIPT OPTIONS for available paper sizes.
This is only used when the -P option (use full page) is used.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
[x]fig(1),
pic(1)
pic2fig(1),
transfig(1)
.SH BUGS and RESTRICTIONS
Please send bug reports, fixes, new features etc. to:
.br
xfig-bugs@epb1.lbl.gov
(Brian V. Smith)
.PP
Arc-boxes are not supported for the tk output language, and only X bitmap pictures
are supported because of the canvas limitation in tk.
.PP
Picture objects are not scaled with the magnification factor for tk output.
.PP
Because tk scales canvas items according to the X display resolution,
polygons, lines, etc. may be scaled differently than imported pictures (bitmaps)
which aren't scaled at all.
.PP
Rotated text is only supported in the IBM-GL (HP/GL) and PostScript (including eps)
languages.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1991 Micah Beck
.br
Parts Copyright (c) 1985 Supoj Sutantavibul
.br
Parts Copyright (c) 1989-1999 Brian V. Smith
.LP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. The authors make no representations about the suitability 
of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express 
or implied warranty.
.LP
THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH AUTHORS
Micah Beck
.br
Cornell University
.br
Sept 28 1990
.sp
and Frank Schmuck (then of Cornell University)
.br
and Conrad Kwok (then of U.C. Davis).
.sp
drivers contributed by
.br
Jose Alberto Fernandez R. (U. of Maryland)
.br
and Gary Beihl (MCC)
.sp
Color support, ISO-character encoding and poster support by
.br
Herbert Bauer (heb@regent.e-technik.tu-muenchen.de)
.sp
Modified from f2p (fig to PIC), by the author of Fig
.br
Supoj Sutanthavibul (supoj@sally.utexas.edu)
.br
University of Texas at Austin. 
.sp
MetaFont driver by
.br
Anthony Starks (ajs@merck.com)
.sp
X-splines code by
.br
Carole Blanc (blanc@labri.u-bordeaux.fr)
.br
Christophe Schlick (schlick@labri.u-bordeaux.fr)
.br
The initial implementation was done by C. Feuille, S. Grobois, L. Maziere
and L. Minihot as a student practice (Universite Bordeaux, France).
.sp
Japanese text support for LaTeX output
written by T. Sato (VEF00200@niftyserve.or.jp)
.sp
The tk driver was written by
.br
Mike Markowski (mm@udel.edu) with a little touch-up by Brian Smith
.sp
The CGM driver (Computer Graphics Metafile) was written by 
.br
Philippe Bekaert (Philippe.Bekaert@cs.kuleuven.ac.be)
